assignment questions on Object-Oriented Programming (OOPs) in Java:
1. What is Inheritance in Java?Inheritance is a mechanism where one class (child/subclass) acquires the properties and behaviors 
(fields and methods) of another class (parent/superclass). It promotes code reusability and establishes a "is-a" relationship.
2. What is superclass and subclass?Superclass (Parent Class): The class whose features are inherited.Subclass (Child Class):
The class that inherits features from the superclass and can also add its own fields and methods.
3. How is Inheritance implemented/achieved in Java?Inheritance is achieved using the extends keyword.javaclass Animal { }
class Dog extends Animal { } // Dog inherits from Animal
4. What is polymorphism?Polymorphism (meaning "many forms") allows objects to be treated as instances of their parent class rather than their actual class.
It allows one interface to be used for a general class of actions.
5. Differentiate between method overloading and overriding.FeatureMethod OverloadingMethod OverridingOccurrenceWithin the same class.Between superclass and subclass.
ParametersMust be different.Must be the same.BindingCompile-time (Static).Runtime (Dynamic).
6. What is abstraction explained with an Example?Abstraction is the process of hiding internal implementation details and showing only the essential features
to the user.Example: When you send an SMS, you know how to type and click "send," but you don't need to know the complex protocol used to transmit the message.
7. What is the difference between an abstract method and final method in Java?Abstract Method: Has no body and must be overridden by a subclass. 
It is used to enforce a specific structure.Final Method: Has a body but cannot be overridden by any subclass. It is used to prevent modification of the implementation.
8. What is the final class in Java?A final class is a class that cannot be inherited (subclassed). For example, the String class in Java is final.
9. Differentiate between abstraction and encapsulation.Abstraction: Focuses on what an object does (design level).
It hides complexity using abstract classes and interfaces.Encapsulation: Focuses on how an object does it (implementation level).
It wraps data (variables) and code (methods) together into a single unit and restricts direct access using access modifiers like private.
10. Difference between Runtime and compile time polymorphism explain with an exampleCompile-time Polymorphism: Resolved during compilation. 
Example: Method Overloading.Example: Having two add() methods, one for integers and one for doubles.Runtime Polymorphism: Resolved during execution.
Example: Method Overriding.Example: A Shape class has a draw() method, and the Circle subclass provides its own specific version of draw(). 
At runtime, the JVM decides which draw() to call based on the object type.